Click Things <-> +1
nethack curse: poor visuals implies complex systems, vice versa.
KISS

Feature creep:
Towns/city zooming
Could you BJ the design of an idle game? (I DO NOT MEAN RETARDMAXXification)
Globe roadway maps

You are an evil flesh monster fixated on eating the world,
You start off in a given city, say paris, and you click on a part and you start seeing growth, which you can increase by clicking more,
this then spreads larger and larger across the city, and there are certain hazards in the game that you have to develop against

This would allow you to take (feature creep) map data (roads) and utilize that. Could be fun as an online game.
This appeals to plague inc. more than anything, however the mechanics here are questionable, and to make this actually fun is even harder,
as you could make the threat piss easy (plague inc.) and rely on recency bias among short singular play sessions,
or you could crush the nuts of you player requiring them to use their braincase and potentially go into an unwinnable circumstance.

Perhaps there is the constant duality to expand / sit around and develop certain attributes. Perhaps you can split yourself and do something with that.

Perhaps this is the wrong idea: you are the fleshly installed literally-bio-reactor for a city, and you are the top soyciencist feeding it,
and you make a series of increasingly poor decisions as to meet corporate demands and undercutting needs.
This leads to the flesh reactor accidently getting out and going for a beer.

Lets go from a more absurd angle: There is an high frequency organ trading market and you just aquired a small loan of a truckload of livers.
This would appeal to the market aspect, but this could have the evolution where when accumulating enough money from investments,
you can buy a company and begin harvesting organs as one goy, and then scale that up to intergalatic organ harvest and trade.
Think of the spaceman buying organs in RW.

Any of the above could transition into another, infact that's the fun part about idle game, at any point you can completely revamp the gameplay
-- as long as numero agraba upsada
